 The White Army
The fighting force of the Whites was the White Army.

The White Army was a cocktail of anti-Bolshevik individuals.

 

The Provisional Government - War Ministers, Commanders and Generals
For the sake of the big picture, we will back up a bit and start with the military leaders of the Provisional Government in March 1917.

    Aleksandr Ivanovich Guchkov
    	

    Aleksandr Ivanovich Guchkov

    Also spelled Alexander Ivanovich Guchkov
    In Russian: Александр Иванович Гучков

    Minister of War and Navy (Provisional Government)
    from March 15 - May 18, 1917.

 

    Aleksandr Fyodorovich Kerensky

    Also spelled Alexander Fedorovich Kerenskii
    In Russian: Алекса́ндр Фёдорович Ке́ренский

    Minister of War and Navy (Provisional Government)
    from May 18 - September 12, 1917.
    	

    Aleksandr Fyodorovich Kerensky

     

    Alexander Ivanovich Verkhovsky
    	

    Alexander Ivanovich Verkhovsky

    Also spelled Aleksandr Ivanovich Verkhovski.
    In Russian: Александр Иванович Верховский

    Minister of War (Provisional Government)
    from September 12 - November 6, 1917.

     

    Mikhail Vasilyevich Alekseyev

    Also spelled Mikhail Vasilevich Alekseev
    In Russian Михаил Васильевич Алексеев

    Supreme Commander-in-Chief
    from March 15, 1917 until June 4, 1917.
    	

    Mikhail Vasilyevich Alekseyev

    Together with Kornilov, organized the Volunteer Army in the South.
     

    Aleksey Alekseyevich Brusilov
    	

    Aleksey Alekseyevich Brusilov

    Also spelled Aleksei Alekseev Brusilov
    In Russian Алексей Алексеевич Брусилов

    Supreme Commander-in-Chief
    from June 4, 1917 until August 1, 1917

    Alekseyev's successor.

     

    Lavr Georgiyevich Kornilov
    In Russian Лавр Гео́ргиевич Корни́лов

    Supreme Commander-in-Chief
    from August 1, 1917 until August 27, 1917

    Brusilov's successor.
    	

    Lavr Georgiyevich Kornilov

    Together with Alekseyev, Kornilov organized the Volunteer Army in the South.
     

    Because of the Kornilov Affair, Kerensky dismissed Kornilov and made himself Supreme Commander-in-Chief on August 27, 1917. As such, Kerensky performed until November 7, 1917.
     

    On November 7, 1917, Kerensky had to flee because of the Bolshevik Revolution. He appointed Dukhonin Supreme Commander-in-Chief. Dukhonin held the post from November 7 until November 22, 1917.

     

     

After the Bolshevik Revolution - The White Army

    Aleksandr Vasilyevich Kolchak
    	

    Alexander Kolchak

    Also spelled Aleksandr Vasilyevich Kolchak
    In Russian Алекса́ндр Васи́льевич Колча́к

    Leader of the anti-Bolshevik government at Omsk from November 18, 1918 until January 4, 1920. War Minister in said government from October 1918.

    Commander of the White forces in the East.

    Yevgeny Karlovich Miller

    Also spelled Evgeni Karlovich Miller
    In Russian Евгений Карлович Миллер

    Commander of the White forces in the North until the Reds defeated his army and Miller was seeking acceptable terms of surrender on February 15, 1920.
    	

    Yevgeny Karlovich Miller

     

    Anton Ivanovich Denikin
    	

    Anton Ivanovich Denikin

    In Russian Анто́н Ива́нович Дени́кин

    Commander of the White forces in the South until April 1920.

     

    Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel

    Also spelled Peter Nikolaevich Wrangel

    Commander of the White forces in the South from April until November 1920, when his army was defeated by the Reds.

    Denikin's successor.
    	

    Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel

     

    Nikolay Nikolayevich Yudenich
    	

    Nikolay Nikolayevich Yudenich

    Also spelled Nikolai Nikolaevich Iudenich
    In Russian Николай Николаевич Юденич

    Commander of the White forces in the Northwest until January 1920 when his army was defeated by the Reds.